[docs] Step-by-step how to migrate existing users to SSO (#25231)
expo/expo: docs/pages/accounts/sso.mdx

## SSO administration

Both new organizations and existing organizations can enable SSO as a sign in option. Organizations with existing non-SSO members can enable SSO and then direct new members to the SSO sign-in page, while existing users continue to use their current Expo credentials. To support external contributors, SSO-enabled organizations also allow inviting additional non-SSO users via email.

### Transitioning existing users to SSO

> Regular user accounts are owned by the individual user and joined to organizations as needed, while SSO users belong exclusively to their organization. Thus, existing users cannot be directly migrated to SSO. However, a user that's already a member of your organization can create a second account by going to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login). Then, their old user can be removed from the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular users may be a member of one or many personal, team, and organization accounts while SSO users belong exclusively to their organization account. Thus, existing users cannot be directly converted into SSO users. However, a regular user that's already a member of your organization may create a second user by going to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login). Then, their regular user can be removed from the organization.
```

To transition from using a regular Expo account to an SSO account, follow these steps:
1. Go to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login) and follow the prompts, entering your organization name, creating a new Expo username, and logging in to your identity provider.
2. By default, your new SSO user will have the View Only role. If you need a different role, ask an Admin or Owner to update your role in [member settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/members).

> 3. At this time, the Admin or Owner can remove your old user from the organization. In [member settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/members), the list of organization members indicates whether a user is an SSO or non-SSO user. The Admin or Owner can click the dropdown next to the old user and click **Remove member**.

Reviewer: That regular user can also leave the account themselves, but maybe that adds more complication to this process.

Author: Yeah, or the regular user can delete their account to close this loop right away. I wanted to focus as much as I could on things the account administrator could control, as they're the one accountable for ensuring the migration is complete.

## SSO administration

Both new organizations and existing organizations can enable SSO as a sign in option. Organizations with existing non-SSO members can enable SSO and then direct new members to the SSO sign-in page, while existing users continue to use their current Expo credentials. To support external contributors, SSO-enabled organizations also support inviting additional non-SSO users via email.

### Transitioning existing users to SSO

> Compared to regular users, SSO users have an exclusive relationship with their organization. Thus, existing users cannot be directly migrated to SSO. However, a user that's already a member of your organization can create a second account by going to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login). Then, their old user can be removed from the organization.

Reviewer: maybe, not sure about this change, up to you.
```suggestion
Compared to regular users, SSO users have an exclusive relationship with their organization (to maintain security requirements of some organizations). Thus, existing users cannot be directly migrated to SSO. However, a user that's already a member of your organization can create a second account by going to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login). Then, their old user can be removed from the organization.
```

Author: I like the idea, not sure about the wording - I just pushed something a little different here. My goal with the paragraph is to echo the restrictions / differences here: https://docs.expo.dev/accounts/sso/#sso-user-restrictions as a reason why the accounts don't lend themselves well to migration. IMO the difference transcends any particular organization's security requirements; org-level ownership of a user just isn't really compatible with the possibility of multi-org access. (I'm thinking of the user who might say, "well, those aren't _my_ requirements, give me the migration!)

To transition from using a regular Expo account to an SSO account, follow these steps:
1. Go to the [SSO login page](https://expo.dev/sso-login) and follow the prompts, entering your organization name, creating a new Expo username, and logging in to your identity provider.
2. By default, your new SSO user will have the View Only role. If you need a different role, ask an Admin or Owner to update your role in [member settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/members).
3. At this time, the Admin or Owner can remove your old user from the organization. In [member settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/members), the list of organization members indicates whether a user is an SSO or non-SSO user. The Admin or Owner can click the dropdown next to the old user and click **Remove member**.

> 4. If you no longer need your old user account, log out of your new SSO account, then login to your old account and go to [user settings](https://expo.dev/settings). Scroll down and click **Delete Account**. **Note that this will delete any projects under  your old user account.** It will not affect any projects owned by the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If you no longer need your old user account, log out of your new SSO account, then login to your old account and go to [user settings](https://expo.dev/settings). Scroll down and click **Delete Account**. **Note that this will delete any projects under your old user account.** It will not affect any projects owned by the organization.
```

> > If you wish to reuse your old username on your new SSO user account, you can go to [user settings](https://expo.dev/settings) under your old user and rename it prior to creating your SSO account. You can also rename your SSO user account's Expo username later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you wish to reuse your old username on your new SSO user account, you can go to [user settings](https://expo.dev/settings) under your old user and rename it prior to creating your SSO account. Alternatively, you can rename your SSO user account's Expo username after deleting your old user.
```

Reviewer 2: There was a comment from someone from Brex that they had to delete their existing user that used their work email before they could create their SSO user that uses their work email. I'm wondering if we need to explicitly say that you don't need to delete your existing account before creating an SSO user.

Author: @lzkb I was thinking about this, too, and wasn't sure where to slot it in without getting too wordy. I just tried adding it to the callout at the bottom of the "transition" section. Feedback most welcome!

An active Enterprise Plan is required to continue using SSO. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) if you wish to discontinue the use of SSO or change your plan.

> In order to ensure uninterrupted access to your organization whether or not SSO is enabled, SSO organizations must keep at least one non-SSO user with the Owner role as a member.

Reviewer: I don't think we've ever verified this. In theory, I think a SSO org could replace all their regular users with SSO users. It just would theoretically add risk of losing access if the IdP disabled all users.

Author: Yeah, I doubt it breaks anything as long as SSO access is maintained, and I'm not aware of us enforcing this (though maybe we should?). I just want to set the expectation that they should keep this one account even after they're otherwise using SSO 100%, because there's no clear path to recovery if SSO suddenly cannot be used for any number of reasons (non-payment, IdP token is revoked and the person who has access to generate a new one is on vacation, etc. etc)
